# obsidian-pocket

This plugin for [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) that allows you to sync your
[Pocket](https://getpocket.com/) reading list into Obsidian, so that you can
easily create Obsidian notes directly from your Pocket reading list.

![pocket-list](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nybbles/obsidian-pocket/master/images/pocket-list.png)

## Installation

The plugin will soon be installable from the "Community plugins" settings tab
in Obsidian, as described
[here](https://help.obsidian.md/Advanced+topics/Third-party+plugins#Discover+and+install+community+plugins).

## Usage

### Settings

After the plugin has been enabled, you will be able to see a "Pocket" option
under the "Plugin options" section of the settings panel, as shown below.

![obsidian-pocket-settings](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nybbles/obsidian-pocket/master/images/obsidian-pocket-settings.png)

### Connecting your Pocket account and syncing Pocket items

Click on "Connect your Pocket account" to begin the Pocket authorization flow by
opening a web page on your default browser. You will be asked whether you want
to give permission to this plugin to access your Pocket data. Then you will be
redirected back to Obsidian.

If you granted permission to this plugin to access Pocket data, you can click on
"Sync Pocket items" to actually download and store your Pocket list locally
within Obsidian.

You can also sync your Pocket items using an Obsidian command: "Sync Pocket list".

You can either sync all Pocket items or just Pocket items with a particular tag
that you specify, using the "Pocket sync tag" setting. Leave it blank to sync
all Pocket items, or specify a Pocket tag to limit your sync to just Pocket
items with that tag.

### Opening and using the Pocket list

Once the Pocket list is downloaded and stored, open the command palette and
search for "Pocket" to see the list of available commands. The command to open
the Pocket list is "Open Pocket list". The Pocket list is shown in a screenshot
above.

The Pocket list can be used to browse through the items you've saved to Pocket
and to create a note for any Pocket item by clicking on its title. You can also
go directly to the URL for the Pocket item. See below for more details.

### Pocket tags in Obsidian

Pocket tags are synced and presented in the Pocket list. Pocket supports tags
with spaces in them, whereas Obsidian does not. The way that obsidian-pocket
handles Pocket tags with spaces can be configured in the "Multi-word Pocket tag
converter options" setting shown in the screenshot above.

The available options are:

- (Enabled by default) Snake case ('#tag with spaces' becomes #tag_with_spaces)
- Camel case ('#tag with spaces' becomes #TagWithSpaces)
- Do nothing ('#tag with spaces' remains unchanged)

These settings only affect the Pocket tags displayed in the Pocket list, and the
tags that are inserted into a Pocket item note if you have `{{tags}}` in your
Pocket item note template (see below for using templates for Pocket item
notes). They do not affect already-existing Obsidian tags or Pocket tags.

### Notes for Pocket items

Click on any Pocket item's title to create a note (or navigate to an existing
note) for that Pocket item. Notes for Pocket items will be created in the Pocket
item notes folder, which can be configured in settings. If no Pocket item notes
folder is set, then Pocket item notes will be created in the root folder.

A template for new Pocket item notes can be specified in settings.

Open the Pocket item URL in your browser using Meta+click for Linux and Mac OS
(e.g. command+click on Mac OS) and using Alt+click for Windows.

Notes in Obisidan are matched to Pocket items based on a specific tag in their
[frontmatter](https://help.obsidian.md/Advanced+topics/YAML+front+matter). The
tag that is used is "URL" by default, but can be changed in settings.

This means that while Pocket item notes are created by default in the Pocket
items notes folder, they can be moved elsewhere and/or renamed without breaking
the connection to the Pocket item with matching URL. It also means that you can
create notes with the URL frontmatter and they will be automatically connected
to the relevant Pocket item note with the matching URL, although the Pocket item
template would not be used in that case.

Use the "Index all files by URL" command to ensure that `obsidian-pocket` knows
about all files that contain a frontmatter tag for URL, thereby allow it to
match those notes to Pocket items. This index is maintained by `obsidian-pocket`
automatically, so you should not need to run it.

An Obsidian note can be matched to a Pocket item if it is in the Pocket item
notes folder and has the same title as the Pocket item. This only happens as a
fallback when there is no Obsidian note with a frontmatter tag for URL that
matches the Pocket item.

## Using templates for Pocket notes

Templates for Pocket notes work similar to any other template in Obsidian, see
[here](https://help.obsidian.md/Plugins/Templates), except that only the
following variables are supported:

| Variable name      | What it means                                           |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `{{title}}`        | The title of the Pocket item                            |
| `{{url}}`          | The URL of the Pocket item                              |
| `{{excerpt}}`      | The excerpt extracted by Pocket for the Pocket item     |
| `{{tags-no-hash}}` | The Pocket tags for the Pocket item                     |
| `{{tags}}`         | The Pocket tags for the Pocket item, with "#" prepended |

Here's an example template that will put this metadata into the [YAML
frontmatter](https://help.obsidian.md/Advanced+topics/YAML+front+matter) of the
note for the Pocket item:

```
---
Title: "{{title}}"
URL: {{url}}
Tags: [{{tags-no-hash}}]
Excerpt: >
    {{excerpt}}
---
{{url}}
{{tags}}
```

If you had saved [this
URL](https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/07/08/1027908/carbon-removal-hype-is-a-dangerous-distraction-climate-change/)
to Pocket with the tag "Carbon removal", synced it to Obsidian using this plugin
and then created a note for the corresponding Pocket item with the above
template, your note would start off containing the following:

```
---
Title: "Carbon removal hype is becoming a dangerous distraction"
URL: https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/07/08/1027908/carbon-removal-hype-is-a-dangerous-distraction-climate-change/
Tags: [carbon_removal]
Excerpt: In February, oil giant Shell trumpeted a scenario in which the world pulls global warming back to 1.5 ÀöC by 2100, even as natural gas, oil, and coal continue to generate huge shares of the world‚Äôs energy.
---
https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/07/08/1027908/carbon-removal-hype-is-a-dangerous-distraction-climate-change/
#carbon_removal
```

Note that in the example template, the title is quoted so that the YAML
frontmatter is valid, even if the Pocket item has a title with colons in it.

## Feature requests, bug reports and PRs

Feature requests, bug reports and PRs are welcome! Please use
https://github.com/nybbles/obsidian-pocket/issues for this. Please file feature
requests under https://github.com/nybbles/obsidian-pocket/labels/enhancement, or
comment in existing feature requests to indicate your interest.

## Design overview and security considerations

This plugin runs completely on your local desktop. The only external party it
communicates with is Pocket, via the [Pocket
API](https://getpocket.com/developer/). All of your data from Pocket and your
Pocket access token are stored locally.

This plugin stores your Pocket data locally in Obsidian's IndexedDB.

## Support

If you find this plugin valuable, please let me know! It is great to hear from
people who use what I've built. If you really like this plugin and want to
express that by buying me a coffee, please do üôèüèæ.

[!["Buy Me A Coffee"](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/nybbles)

_Please don't feel obligated to donate!_
